We've looked at creating **Observable** properties, which let us watch for changes in our **Application State**.  But how do our **Components** track those changes?

If you look at the `UserView.render` method, we simply read from our `User`.  Cascade tracked those changes for us automatically using **Computed** properties.  For our Components, this is done behind the scenes.  But we can use them in our Application State just as easily.

## Computed Properties

Cascade provides **Computed** properties for objects, which use a getter function to produce a value.  However, any **Observable** properties used in this function, will automatically produce subscriptions.

For simplicity, we can also use the `@observable` decorator, except in front of a getter function.

```` Typescript
@observable get property(): type {
    return this.value;
}
````

For our `User` let's add a `fullName` **Computed** property.  Add this right under the `firstName` and `lastName` properties.

```` Typescript
@observable get fullName() {
    return this.firstName + ' ' + this.lastName;
}
````

There are a couple things to note:

1. We simply used the values in order to subscribe to them automatically.
2. We can use as many values as we want.
3. Whatever we return from this method will be the value of the property.

## Subscribing Directly to Observables

There are two main ways of subscribing to **Observable** properties.  We may either subscribe directly, or through a **Computed** property, which we will examine next.

```` TypeScript
Cascade.subscribe<T>(obj: any, property: string, subscriberFunction: ISubscriberFunction<T>);
````

The `subscriberFunction` will be called any time the value of the property changes.  Keep in mind, simply storing an identical value to the property is not a change, and so there will be no notification.

## Hiding Reads

Any time a **Computed** property references another **Observable** property, Cascade will automatically create a subscription.  However, in some cases you may want to read, but not produce a subscription.  In this case, read the **Observable** with:

```` TypeScript
Cascade.peek(obj: any, property: string): any;
````

## Update Batching

Cascade attempts to reduce updates to **Computed** properties whenever possible.  For example, lets say we have a some **Application State** with multiple **Observable** properties and a **Computed** property which references them.  Now let's say we change all of the **Observable** properties.  Cascade will only update the **Computed** once.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @observable a: number = 0;
    @observable b: number = 0;
    @observable c: number = 0;
    @computed get abc(): number {
        return this.a + this.b + this.c;
    }
}

// Create our Application State
let viewModel = new ViewModel();

// Subscribe to our Computed
Cascade.subscribe(viewModel, 'abc', (value) => {
    console.log(viewModel.abc);
});

// Update our values
viewModel.a = 1;
viewModel.b = 2;
viewModel.c = 3;
````

In the example above, our `console.log()` will only be called twice.

## Avoid Circular References

In order for updates to flow, we must avoid any "circular references" or "cycles".  This means that as an update is occurring, it must not reach the same node more than once.

For example, let's say we have two **Computed** properties, A and B.  And let's say A references B, and B references A.  So if A is updated, then we must update B.  Similarly if B is updated, we must update A.  In which case updating A, will update B, which will update A, which will update B, and so on.

So it is important that these situations be avoided.

## Responding to updates

It is best to avoid writing to **Observable** properties inside of a **Computed**.  In most cases, a second **Computed** which references the first will be enough.

> **Note: absolutely do not both read and write to an Observable inside of a Computed.  This will cause a circular reference.**

If you must write to an **Observable** or do other work, it is best to wrap it inside of a `window.setTimeout()`, or use:

```` TypeScript
Cascade.wrapContext(callback: () => any, thisArg?: any): IObservable<any[]>;
````
