JavaScript supports two basic data structures for storing information, Arrays and Hashes.  Let's look at how we might add an Array and a Hash to a View Model.

## Arrays

TypeScript arrays can be defined and initialized in two ways, with the `Array<T>` type, or `T[]` type.  Both of these are equivalent, but one or the other may be easier to write depending on the situation.  Also, for compatibility with Internet Explorer, Cascade provides an interface `IArray<T>`, but we will cover that in more depth later.

So, if we were to create an Array of `string` elements, it would be.

```` TypeScript
let list: string[] = [];
````

This code simply creates an variable called `list`, defined as an `string[]` and initializes it to be an empty `Array`.  It is important to note that we have initialized this variable, otherwise it would equal `undefined`.

Now that we have created an `Array`, we can access its values with a regular `Assignment Operator`.  We can read and write values with:

```` TypeScript
let value = list[0];
list[1] = 2;
````

We can also use any of the `Array` methods, such as `Array.prototype.push(value: any): void;`

```` TypeScript
list.push(3);
````

## Hashes

Next, we have JavaScript Hashes, which are actually just regular Objects.

TypeScript Hashes can be defined as an `interface`, which stores elements with either `string` or `number` indexes.  JavaScript allows for mixing index types, but TypeScript requies it to be one or the other.  Since we already have support for `number` indexes with Arrays, Cascade defines Hash types as:

```` TypeScript
interface IHash<T> {
    [index: string]: T;
}
````

For ease of use, `IHash` may be imported from Cascade.

## External Links

For more information on Arrays, visit [Array - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

For more information on Objects, visit [Objects - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

## View Models

We may store Arrays and Hashes as properties on a View Model.  For example:

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    list = [];
    map = {};
}
````

However, just like regular properties, changes to these properties will be ignored.  Again, if we add our decorators, we can subscribe to changes.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @array list = [];
    @hash map = {};
}
````

It's important to note that once an Array or Hashe is marked as observable, Cascade will automatically set its value to be an Array or Hash, even if we haven't initialized it.  We don't even have to write an initialization in the code.  Plus, we don't have to check if the property is truthy before doing lookups on it.  All of that is handled by Cascade!

So, we can simply write:

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @array list;
    @hash map;
}
````

We can also be more specific about what is stored in Arrays and Hashes.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @array list: string[];
    @hash map: IHash<string>;
}
````

## Reflection Polyfill

By default, Arrays must be decorated with `@array` and Hashes with `@hash`.  However, just like we can use `@observable` to decorate `Computed` properties, we can also use it to decorate Arrays, but only with some extra libraries.

In order to get this automatic type detection, we have to set up an experimental TypeScript Metadata feature.  First off, you must set `"emitDecoratorMetadata": true` in your `tsconfig.json` file.  Then, you must install the package `reflect-metadata` from npm.

Furthermore, for IE10 and below, you must also include `es6-shim` or similar polyfills.

Then, in your main TypeScript file, you must include:

```` TypeScript
import 'es6-shim';
import 'reflect-metadata';
````

> **Note:** This does not currently support Hashes.

## Legacy Browser Support

In general, Cascade fully supports older browsers, including Internet Explorer 9+.  However, Arrays and Hashes are one area where some special consideration must be made.

First off, Observable Hashes are not supported.  Their functionality can be emulated easily with ObservableArrays and a regular Hash object.

Secondly, Observable Arrays work slightly differently in Internet Explorer.  In modern browsers, we can simply write to any index and it will be detected.

```` TypeScript
viewModel.list[0] = 'value';
````

However, in Internet Explorer, we must use an explicit setter method.

```` TypeScript
ObserableArray<T>.set(index: number, value: T): void;
````

Which in practice would look like:

```` TypeScript
viewModel.list.set(0, 'value');
````

However, TypeScript will complain that the `set` method doesn't exist on `Array`.  So, we can update our View Model to use `IArray<T>` instead of `T[]` or `Array<T>`.  This interface can be imported from Cascade.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @array list: IArray<string>;
    @hash map: IHash<string>;
}
````


